# Seaweed_in_Two_Oceans
Supporting material for the paper with the same title

# Abstract
Several species assembly mechanisms have been proposed to structure
ecological communities. We assess the biogeography of seaweeds along
2,900 km of South Africa’s coastline in relation to a thermal gradient
produced by the Agulhas Current, and contrast this with the
environmental structure created by the Benguela Current. We subdivided
the coastline into ‘bioregions’ to examine the regional patterning. To
investigate the assembly mechanisms, we decomposed Sørensen’s β-diversity
into ‘turnover’ (β<sup>sim</sup>) and ‘nestedness-resultant’
(β<sup>sne</sup>) dissimilarities, and used distance-based redundancy
analysis (db-RDA) to relate them to the Euclidian thermal difference,
d<sup>E</sup>, and geographical distance. Moran’s eigenvector maps
(MEM) were used as an additional set of spatial constraints. Variation
partitioning was then used to find the relative strengths of thermal and
spatially-structured thermal drivers. Spatial and environmental
predictors explained 97.9% of the total variation in β<sup>sim</sup> and
the thermal gradient accounted for 84.2% of this combined pool.
β<sup>sim</sup> was the major component of overall -diversity in the
Agulhas Current region, suggesting niche influences (environmental
sorting) as dominant assembly process there. The much weaker thermal
gradient in the Benguela Current-influenced region resulted in a high
amount of β<sup>sne</sup> that could indicate neutral assembly
processes. The intensification of upwelling during the mid-Pliocene
4.6–3.2 Ma (*i.e.* historical factors) were likely responsible for
setting up the strong disjunction between the species-poor west coast
and species-rich south and east coast floras, and this separation
continues to maintain two systems of community structuring mechanisms in
the Atlantic and Indian Ocean influenced sides of South Africa.
