Several species assembly mechanisms have been proposed to structure
ecological communities. We assess the biogeography of seaweeds along
2,900 km of South Africa’s coastline in relation to a thermal gradient
produced by the Agulhas Current, and contrast this with the
environmental structure created by the Benguela Current. We subdivided
the coastline into ‘bioregions’ to examine the regional patterning. To
investigate the assembly mechanisms, we decomposed Sørensen’s -diversity
into ‘turnover’ ($_{\text{sim}}$) and ‘nestedness-resultant’
($_{\text{sne}}$) dissimilarities, and used distance-based redundancy
analysis (db-RDA) to relate them to the Euclidian thermal difference,
d$_{\text{E}}$, and geographical distance. Moran’s eigenvector maps
(MEM) were used as an additional set of spatial constraints. Variation
partitioning was then used to find the relative strengths of thermal and
spatially-structured thermal drivers. Spatial and environmental
predictors explained 97.9% of the total variation in $_{\text{sim}}$ and
the thermal gradient accounted for 84.2% of this combined pool.
$_{\text{sim}}$ was the major component of overall -diversity in the
Agulhas Current region, suggesting niche influences (environmental
sorting) as dominant assembly process there. The much weaker thermal
gradient in the Benguela Current-influenced region resulted in a high
amount of $_{\text{sne}}$ that could indicate neutral assembly
processes. The intensification of upwelling during the mid-Pliocene
4.6–3.2 Ma (*i.e.* historical factors) were likely responsible for
setting up the strong disjunction between the species-poor west coast
and species-rich south and east coast floras, and this separation
continues to maintain two systems of community structuring mechanisms in
the Atlantic and Indian Ocean influenced sides of South Africa.

Introduction
============

The assembly processes that structure biodiversity across a range of
scales form the theme of macroecology [@Chave2013]. This paper deals
with the composition of seaweed assemblages along the \~2,900 km South
African coastline, including the identification, description and
explanation for the spatially-structured patterns at scales from 100s to
1,000s of kilometers. Inshore conditions along this coastline range from
cool through warm temperate to fringe tropical
[@Bolton2004; @BoltonAnderson2004], and are influenced by two major
ocean currents in two oceans that set up a strong thermal gradient along
the shore [@Smit2013]. We investigate how a gradient in seaweed
community composition may have arisen in response to this temperature
gradient [*e.g.* @Qian2007], and the extent to which deterministic,
niche-based species assembly processes could have contributed towards
the assembly of the seaweed flora of the region.

Biodiversity may be viewed in terms of -, - and -diversity, with the
former two referring to ‘local’ and ‘regional’ diversity, respectively.
-diversity as defined by @Whittaker1960 [@Whittaker1972] is a measure of
variation in species composition from place to place and is comprised of
two processes [@Baselga2012]: the replacement of species independently
of the difference in species richness (called ‘turnover’,
$_{\text{sim}}$) and a term that considers this difference in species
richness called (‘nestedness-resultant’, $_{\text{sne}}$). The relative
contribution of these two processes is not immediately evident from
species dissimilarities, and yet such considerations should be implicit
in macroecological studies. The ability to decompose -diversity into
turnover and nestedness-resultant components has become possible within
the last decade [@Baselga2010], but the use of this form of -diversity
partitioning has not yet widely permeated the phycological literature
[or even in marine studies more broadly; @Anderson2013]. Cognisance of
spatial scaling should also be deeply rooted in the study of
biodiversity more generally, but such questions have only recently begun
to be addressed [@Barton2013].

Since studies of -diversity consider the variation in species assembly
processes from place to place, and necessitate an understanding of
mechanisms that drive these processes (Davidar et al. 2007), studying
-diversity of adjacent coastal marine bioregions or marine provinces
[@Spalding2007] could provide deeper insight into how such processes
operate along gradients [@Qian2007]. Few studies dealing specifically
with -diversity exist for marine biota, especially over spatial areas in
excess of 1,000s of kilometers. Recent examples include studies on fish
distribution [@Zintzen2010; @Anderson2013], the biogeography of
macroalgae along 6,600 km of Australian coastline [@Leaper2011], and a
study on deep-sea bivalves [@McClain2011]. All four have -diversity as a
primary interest. However, macroecological studies in the terrestrial
realm have yielded the most comprehensive insights into the drivers
responsible for assembling species into communities
[@Whittaker1960; @Davidar2007; @Qian2007; @Soininen2007a]. What these
studies showed is that, perhaps universally, high rates of species
turnover are associated with steep environmental gradients, such as
those occurring along mountain slopes or across latitudes. In the ocean,
the biggest driver latitudinally seems to be temperature
[@Tittensor2010; @StuartSmith2017b; @straub2016]; other drivers such as
nutrients, salinity, turbidity, wave action and photoperiod may also
structure species composition, but these are likely to depend more on
the regional context, and some, such as nutrients [*e.g.* @Waldron1992],
are often strongly correlated with a more distal variable, such as
temperature.

Recent decades have seen temperature emerging as a readily available
environmental driver that’s able to resolve the ocean’s heat content
across a multitude of temporal and spatial scales. Temperature is also
very useful as a predictor of species range limits due to it being one
of the key output variables of coupled global ocean-atmosphere
circulation models used to project the physical milieu of the future
Earth that has experienced anthropogenic climatic change [@AR5], hence
making it the focus of our present study. The controlling effect of
seawater temperature on the survival and reproduction of benthic
organisms and patterns in the evolution and ecology of biological
assemblages at regional scales is well known
[@VandenHoek1982; @Breeman1988; @Blanchet2008; @Broitman2008; @Byrne2009; @Verbruggen2009; @Wieters2009; @Couce2012; @Potts2014].
It influences the species composition of the biota associated with
various thermal zones, which forms patterns on global, regional and
local scales [@Tittensor2010; @Spalding2012]. At the global scale, ocean
currents and well-characterised latitudinal solar heat flux gradients
maintain the ocean’s thermal regime. At local scales (&lt;10 km) at the
land/sea margin, however, additional less well-known physical phenomena
contribute to thermal patterns and dynamics that may differ markedly
from those at the mesoscale (*i.e.* spatial scales &gt;50 km), and the
different properties of the temperature regime which set up the
biogeographical patterns are less well understood there — this is
especially true at regional and local scales near the land where
satellite data poorly reflect reality [@Smit2013]. Most studies that
recognise temperature as a major driver of species distribution take the
annual mean temperature [@Tittensor2010]; fewer recognise the importance
of variability and range [*e.g.* @Couce2012; @Tyberghein2012]. Detailed
laboratory culture studies with seaweed species, for example, closely
link biogeographical distribution limits with maximum and minimum
monthly mean temperatures [@VandenHoek1982; @Breeman1988]. The
time-integrated ‘thermal environment’ is an amalgam of various
statistical properties derived from a multitude of instantaneous
temperature recordings, and it is pertinent to question if one or a few
of these properties have an overriding imprint on the species assembly.

Understanding the processes influencing species turnover and
geographical range is of practical importance to spatial biodiversity
planning. This is especially relevant in today’s warming world because
it will allow us to project future biodiversity responses. Focusing
conservation efforts on areas of high -diversity will ensure the
preservation of a diversity of species and their environmental niches.
Peaks in -diversity along ecoclines may indicate boundaries between
bioregions, highlighting regions where communities are poised at their
environmental limits, thus aligning with long-term monitoring surveys
that aim to project ecosystem responses to climatic change.

Using a detailed data set of seaweed presence and absence records
coupled with coastal *in situ* seawater temperature climatologies that
are able to resolve the coastal zone, we investigated the thermal
properties and species composition of 58 coastal sections spaced around
the South African coastline. The coastline is broadly influenced by two
major ocean currents, the Benguela Current and the Agulhas Current. One
is an eastern boundary upwelling system and defines a cool temperate
environment, and the other a western boundary current driving meridional
transport of sub-tropical water towards the tip of Africa. We were
primarily interested in establishing how these ocean currents, of which
the effect at the coast can readily be measured as gradients in thermal
properties, may have influenced the species assembly processes operating
along an approximately 2,900 km long coastline. To do so, we first link
matrices of species dissimilarity to environmental distance matrices and
Moran’s eigenvector maps (MEM) using distance-based redundancy analysis,
and then apply variance partitioning [@PeresNeto2010] to determine the
relative contributions of thermal metrics and other spatially-organised
drivers of seaweed community composition (as seen in the -diversity
components, $_{\text{sim}}$ and $_{\text{sne}}$). Second, we examine how
the thermal and spatial structuring agents operate at smaller spatial
scales within marine provinces of the region by undertaking a more
detailed analysis of the various distance matrices, and also ask which
of the thermal properties we examined were most influential in setting
up the patterns that emerged. Our findings are congruent with existing
knowledge [*e.g.* @Stephenson1948; @Lombard2004; @Spalding2007] and add
a more nuanced understanding of the processes responsible for
structuring the seaweed biodiversity in the sub-region.

Methods
=======

Species data and explanatory variables
--------------------------------------

We used three sets of data in this analysis. The first comprises
distribution records (presence/absence) of 846 macroalgal species
belonging to the Divisions Ochrophyta, Rhodophyta and Chlorophyta within
each of 58 × 50 km-long sections of the South African coast (mentioned
in **bold** font in the text and listed in Appendix A, Table1). The
*seaweed data* represent *ca.* 90% of the known seaweed flora of South
Africa in the intertidal and shallow subtidal, but excludes some very
small and/or very rare species for which data are insufficient. The data
are from verifiable literature sources and our own collections,
assembled from information collected by teams of phycologists over three
decades
[@Bolton2002; @Bolton1996; @Bolton1986; @DeClerck2005; @Stegenga1997].

The second is a dataset of *in situ* coastal seawater temperatures
[@Smit2013] derived from daily measurements over up to 40 years. The
*thermal data* set was used as the first set of explanatory variables.
The following statistical properties were entered into the analysis: the
means for the year (*annMean*), February (*febMean*, Austral summer) and
August (*augMean*, Austral winter); the annual standard deviation (SD)
around the mean for the year, February and August (*annSD*, *febSD* and
*augSD*, respectively); and the annual thermal range between the mean
temperature of the warmest and coldest months (*annRange*), and the mean
range of February and August temperatures (*febRange* and *augRange*).

The third set of explanatory variables was generated to represent the
spatial connectivity among coastal sections. Because of the strong
environmental gradients along the shore, species community composition
should be spatially organised (including the modelled spatially
structured environmental variables, exogenous spatial variables and
autocorrelation), and this was accounted for in the analysis. To this
end we produced a section–section connectivity matrix based on a minimum
spanning tree (MST) topology, starting from a geographical distance
matrix. This topology focuses on relationships between neighbouring
sections and discards connections that are further away. In the case of
the coastline data, sections are connected only to other sections that
are below a certain truncation distance. This largely resulted in a
‘string-of-beads’ series of section–section connections; for example,
Section **4** is directly connected to only Sections **3** and **5**;
sections at the termini of the coastal ‘string’ of sections are each
connected to only one other section. We generated Moran’s eigenvector
maps [MEM; @Dray2006; @Dray2012a] from this connectivity matrix through
a principal coordinates analysis (PCoA) using the `PCNM` function of the
**PCNM** package in R 3.3.3 [@R2017], and kept the MEMs with positive
spatial correlation. The MEMs are completely orthogonal and represent
the spatial structures over the full range of scales from 50 to 2,900
km. Large eigenvectors represent broad spatial scales while smaller ones
cover finer features. The *spatial data* were used as the second set of
explanatory variables in multiple regression type analyses [@Dray2012a].
Details and code are provided in Appendix B and may be accessed online
at <https://github.com/ajsmit/Seaweeds_in_Two_Oceans.git>.

Distance-based redundancy analysis and variance partitioning
------------------------------------------------------------

Using the distance-based redundancy analysis [db-RDA; @Minchin1987]
implemented with the `capscale` function of the R package, **vegan**
[@oksanen2016vegan], we explored the role of the thermal and spatial
descriptors in structuring the seaweed communities across the 58 coastal
sections. To represent the biotic data, we decomposed Sørensen’s
dissimilarity ($_{\text{sør}}$) into its ‘nestedness-resultant’
($_{\text{sne}}$) and ‘turnover’ ($_{\text{sim}}$) components
[@Baselga2010] using the **betapart** package [@Baselga2013]. This
approach was necessary because -diversity is strongly coupled with
-diversity, and it allowed us to make inferences about the possible
drivers of -diversity. Turnover refers to processes that cause
communities to differ due to species being lost and/or gained from
section to section, *i.e.* the species composition changes between
sections without corresponding changes in -diversity. The
nestedness-resultant component implies processes that cause species to
be gained or lost, and the community with the lowest -diversity is a
subset of the richer community.

The assessment of the biotic ordination within the context of the
underlying environmental properties proceeded using the environmental
variables’ *z*-scores. To determine the descriptors that best describe
the patterns in the seaweed dissimilarity data, we first applied full
(global) db-RDAs using the complete sets of thermal and spatial
variables, separately for each set. Using the forward selection
procedure implemented in the **packfor** package for R [@Blanchet2008],
we reduced the number of variables in each set and retained only those
that best fit the biotic data. Forward selection prevents the inflation
of the overall type I error and reduces the number of explanatory
variables used in the final model, which improves parsimony. The reduced
set of thermal variables retained collinear variables [@Graham2003],
which were identified and removed using variance inflation factors [VIF;
@Dormann2013]. This was not necessary for the MEMs as they are
orthogonal by definition. The remaining significant orthogonal thermal
and spatial variables were then regressed with $_{\text{sim}}$ and
$_{\text{sne}}$ and final db-RDA models produced. The computation of
db-RDAs was followed by permutation tests of the adjusted *R*^2^ to
assess the significance of constraints (thermal and spatial
descriptors). Lastly we undertook variance partitioning
[@Peres-Neto2006; @PeresNeto2010] between the environmental (thermal)
and spatial predictors using the `varpart` function in the **vegan**
package. Refer to Appendix B for more information about the methodology
and for the R code underlying the analysis.

Analyses of dissimilarity and distance matrices
-----------------------------------------------

We then explored regional patterns in -diversity. Because connectivity
between sections is constrained by their location along the shore and
thus direct distances between sections do not apply, the total distance
between a pair of arbitrary sections is the cumulative sum of the great
circle distances between each consecutive pair of intervening sections
along the coast (this is in fact encapsulated by the connectivity matrix
used in the PCNM analysis, above). Plots showing the relationship of
$_{\text{sim}}$ and $_{\text{sne}}$ with distance are limited because
they do not provide a geographical context. To overcome this problem, we
used a ‘network graph’ to show spatial relationships in regional species
dissimilarity. See Appendix C for details and R code.

The last step of our analysis was applied to the four bioregions
recognised for South Africa [@Bolton2004], namely the Benguela Marine
Province (BMP; **1**–**17**), the Benguela-Agulhas Transition Zone
(B-ATZ; **18**–**22**), the Agulhas Marine Province (AMP;
**19**–**43**/**44**) and the East Coast Transition Zone (ECTZ;
**44**/**45**–**58**). To this end, we calculated an Euclidian distance
matrix that encapsulated all pairwise differences between coastal
sections for each of the thermal metrics highlighted in the db-RDA
(above) using the **vegan** package; these are called thermal
differences (d$_{\text{E}}$) throughout. We then correlated
$_{\text{sim}}$ and $_{\text{sne}}$ with geographical distance and
d$_{\text{E}}$ and provided matching plots in which the four bioregions
were colour-coded to discern bioregional affiliations and differences.
Together these analyses were able to capture -diversity at two spatial
scales: among sections within bioregions, and among all sections for the
whole country.

Results
=======

The thermal environment and species richness
--------------------------------------------

South Africa’s annual mean coastal water temperature ranged from 12.0 ±
0.9°C (mean ± SD) at its north-western limit near the Namibian border
(**1**) to 24.0 ± 1.9°C on the east coast near the Mozambican border
(**58**) (Fig. \[fig1\]). The global latitudinal gradient of diminishing
temperature with increasing latitude was seen only along the east coast
where the annual mean temperature decreased from *ca.* 24.5°C near
**58** to 17.5°C around **39**. The alongshore thermal gradient for this
950 km stretch of coastline was *ca.* 0.7°C per 100 km, with steeper
gradients near **54**. The latitudinal gradient largely reversed in
direction along the west coast (**1**–**16**), *i.e.* temperatures
became slightly cooler further north.

**Figure 1 near here.**

On average, these data indicated an increase in inshore annual mean
temperatures from west to east (**1**–**58**) of 12.1–24.4°C (range:
12.3°C). In February the thermal range was 13.7°C, while in August it
was 10.5°C. In August the west–east temperature transition was smooth
whereas in February substantial warm fluctuations in the mean monthly
temperature were observed in embayments such as **13** and the False Bay
sections from **17**–**18**, and **28** and some sections around
**35**/**36** and Algoa Bay from **34**–**36**. In summer the mean
monthly temperature gradient steepened between **19**–**28**, and
thereafter decreased eastwards along the coast from **33**–**34**.

The number of species within the BMP was low, and many northern sections
had fewer than 150 species, and it rose significantly in the warmer
section around **12**/**13**, and the southern sections around the Cape
Peninsula (**16**/**17**). Thereafter, richness increased markedly in
the B-ATZ, the AMP and the ECTZ. The highest number of species in any
one section was 340 (Section **39** near the eastern end of the AMP).

Environmental correlates of seaweed diversity
---------------------------------------------

db-RDA, forward selection and the assessment of VIF retained *augMean*,
*febRange*, *febSD* and *augSD* as the most parsimonious descriptors of
$_{\text{sim}}$ with an adjusted *R*^2^ of 0.885, explaining 89.8% of
the variation (global permutation test on final model: d.f. = 4, *F* =
110.16, *p* = 0.001). The model consisted of two significant canonical
axes: CAP1 and CAP2 explained 73.3% and 14.9% of the variation,
respectively. The biplot scores (vectors) showed that *augMean* was
heavily loaded along CAP1 and the metrics related to variation around
the mean, *i.e.* *febRange* and *febSD*, strongly influenced
$_{\text{sim}}$ along CAP2 (Fig. \[fig2\]). Plots of the ‘lc’ scores on
geographic axes are given in Fig. \[fig3\]. The scores representing CAP1
increased gradually along the shore from west to east, reflecting the
pervasive influence of *augMean* as coastal sections changed from cool
to warm temperate through to sub-tropical thermal regimes. CAP2 site
scores were lowest along the southern sections. $_{\text{sne}}$ was only
influenced by *annMean* (Fig. \[fig2\]) along CAP1 that explained 20.3%
of the total variation (*R*^2^ = -0.140, d.f. = 1, *F* = -6.018).

**Figure 2 near here.**

The db-RDA analysis procedure retained 17 significant MEMs that fully
encapsulated the spatial dependence within $_{\text{sim}}$ (d.f. = 18,
*F* = 84.055, *p* = 0.001), resulting in an adjusted *R*^2^ of 0.963 and
accounting for all of the variation. Fifteen canonical axes were
produced of which five were significant. The first one alone explained
77.1% of variance with the remaining axes accounting for *ca.* 1% or
less of the inertia. MEM2, MEM3 and MEM5 were most strongly loaded along
CAP1 (Fig. \[fig3\]). These MEMs caused the sections belonging with the
BMP to separate out from all other sections, and also for the northern
sites of the ECTZ to diverge from the sections and bioregions further
south. The scales of spatial dependence captured by these MEMs could all
be considered to be broad-scaled. Two canonical axes comprised of two
significant MEMs were able to explain 87.3% of the variation in
$_{\text{sne}}$ (*R*^2^ of 0.437, d.f. = 4, *F* = 12.06, *p* = 0.001;
Fig. \[fig3\]). CAP1 consumed 79.0% of the inertia due to MEM1 and MEM5.

**Figure 3 near here.**

The partitioning of the variance associated with the seaweed community
along the coast (Table 1) was explained jointly by the thermal and
spatial variables selected in the preceding db-RDAs. Combining the
thermal and spatial predictors (fractions
<span>\[</span>E+S<span>\]</span>) allowed the model to capture 97.9% of
the total $_{\text{sim}}$ variance (*F* = 191.56, *p* = 0.001), with a
residual variance of 2.1%. The thermal variables on their own (*i.e.*
those that are spatially unstructured; fraction
<span>\[</span>E$\vert$S<span>\]</span>) were able to account for only
1.8% of the total variation (*F* = 20.506, *p* = 0.001), but including
some spatially structured thermal properties,
<span>\[</span>E<span>\]</span>, raised the proportion of explained
variation to 84.2% (*F* = 110.16, *p* = 0.001). Pure spatial patterning
(*i.e.* in the absence of temperature influences, perhaps with exogenous
environmental influences or autocorrelation; fraction
<span>\[</span>S$\vert$E<span>\]</span>) drove 13.7% of the species
variation (*F* = 23.649, *p* = 0.001), and adding some thermal
influences together with spatial descriptors,
<span>\[</span>S<span>\]</span>, increased this to 96.1% (*F* = 80.731,
*p* = 0.001). Turning now to $_{\text{sne}}$, we see that our
explanatory variables were less successful in capturing the variation.
The spatial variables, <span>\[</span>S<span>\]</span>, and the spatial
plus thermal variables, <span>\[</span>E+S<span>\]</span>, were able to
account for 67.8% (*F* = 12.06, *p* = 0.001) and 71.4% (*F* = 9.077, *p*
= 0.001) of the variation, respectively.

**Table 1 near here.**

Pairwise dissimilarities
------------------------

Network graphs show the spatial relationships of $_{\text{sim}}$
(Fig. \[fig4\]). $_{\text{sim}}$ clearly highlighted the effect of the
sharp change in -diversity between the BMP and the B-ATZ. Sections in
the B-ATZ retained similarities with sections as far east as **33**
within the AMP. Eastwards from **30** similarities with sections within
the ECTZ became apparent, but they generally did not extend past **43**.
Aside from a very low similarity with sections at the eastern extent of
the AMP, the ECTZ sections retained similarities with sections within
the same biogeographical province only over very short distances, and
again it highlighted the high -diversity in this region.

**Figure 4 near here.**

The overall and regional mean values for the three measures of pairwise
-diversity are presented in Table 2. The overall Sørensen -diversity
($_{\text{sør}}$, 0.496 ± 0.287) was larger than that of the bioregions,
and only a small fraction of it was comprised of nestedness-resultant
-diversity. Of the four bioregions, the ECTZ had the highest
$_{\text{sør}}$ (0.259 ± 0.157). At the bioregional scale, it is
important to note that the nestedness-resultant component was about four
times larger for the BMP ($_{\text{sne}}$/$_{\text{sør}}$ = 0.581) than
that of the other three ($_{\text{sne}}$/$_{\text{sør}}$ ranged from
0.097 to 0.170).

Plots of $_{\text{sim}}$ and $_{\text{sne}}$ among all possible section
pairs indicated clear differences among the four bioregions in their
relationships with geographic and thermal distances (Fig. \[fig5\]). The
BMP showed a weak relationship between $_{\text{sim}}$ and distance
(*r*^2^ = 0.052; regression statistics in Table \[table3\]) since much
of the compositional variation between sections in this region was due
as much to nestedness-resultant -diversity as it was to turnover
(Fig. \[fig5\]) as noted above (see $_{\text{sne}}$/$_{\text{sør}}$ in
Table \[table2\]). Within the ECTZ (\~900 km long coastline) and the
B-ATZ (only 170 km long) the rates were moderate at $\beta$ = 0.079
(*r*^2^ = 0.936) and high at $\beta$ = 0.109 (*r*^2^ = 0.658) per 100
km, respectively. In the AMP it was lower at $\beta$ = 0.029 per 100 km
(*r*^2^ = 0.834). Higher rates ($\beta$) indicate that communities
turned over more rapidly per unit distance of coastline; furthermore,
this also provided strong evidence that -diversity was structured along
environmental gradients. -diversity was less influenced by changes in
species numbers between sections in the B-ATZ, AMP and the ECTZ, as
these two marine provinces were characterised by a relatively even
number of species and hence had low -diversities attributed to
nestedness (Fig. \[fig5\]). $_{\text{sim}}$ expressed with respect to
the *augMean* thermal distance showed similarly steep slopes for three
of the bioregions ($\beta$s ranging from 0.290 to 0.350, with *r*^2^
&gt; 0.605), with that for the BMP about a two-thirds lower
(Fig. \[fig5\]; Table \[table3\]). With respect to *febRange*, a
significant relationship with $_{\text{sim}}$ existed only for the two
transitional areas, the B-ATZ and the ECTZ (*r*^2^ of 0.548 and 0.583,
respectively; Fig. \[fig5\]). The steepness of the relationship between
$_{\text{sim}}$ and the latter thermal metric was lower than that seen
with *augMean*. Concerning *febSD*, this relationship was steepest for
the B-ATZ ($\beta$ = 0.103, *r*^2^ = 0.276) and then the ECTZ ($\beta$ =
0.082, *r*^2^ = 0.310; Fig. \[fig5\]); the same general trend held for
*augSD*, with *r*^2^ = 0.310 and *r*^2^ = 0.276 for the ECTZ and B-ATZ,
respectively. The pattern of $_{\text{sne}}$ with geographic and thermal
distance was generally significant but very poor (low *r*^2^-values) and
with weak gradients ($\beta$) (Fig. \[fig5\]). The notable outcome there
was that it was the BMP where $_{\text{sne}}$ was strongest even though
its *r*^2^ values were weak (*r*^2^ = 0.205 and 0.164 for the
relationship with geographical distance and thermal distance,
respecively).

**Figure 5 near here.**

**Table 2 near here.**

**Table 3 near here.**

Discussion
==========

This study considered the drivers of seaweed -diversity at the scale of
bioregions (marine provinces) nested within a \~2,900 km stretch of
coastline. With the exception of the some Australian studies
[@Smale2010; @Smale2011; @Waters2010; @Leaper2011; @Wernberg2013], one
in Europe [@Tuya2012] and another two in the Arabian region
[@Schils2006; @Issa2014], studies of this scale and nature have so far
been infrequently seen for marine macroalgae. Of the above-mentioned
studies, only two specifically considered -diversity
[@Leaper2011; @Issa2014]. Our data focus on the taxonomic representivity
of a region by aggregating species occurrence records within 50 km long
sections of coastline, and are blind to the effects of small-scale
habitat heterogeneity [*e.g.* as seen in @Smale2010]. For this reason we
cannot infer influences of stochastic processes and other aspects of
environmental heterogeneity at scales of &lt;50 km; as such we excluded
drivers that may be only of local relevevance, such as salinity,
turbidity (light), and wave action. Rather, our data emphasise broad
biogeographic patterns [@Lawton1999], with induced spatial dependence
[@PeresNeto2010] emerging as the main species assembly process east of
the Cape Peninsula. This points to deterministic niche influences that
correlate with environmental drivers that function over a broad spatial
scale. These environmental and biotic patterns reflect the nature of the
two dominant ocean currents of the region, and we see that -diversity at
the scale of the country is moderately high and generally influenced by
processes that cause species turnover ($_{\text{sim}}$). Our selected
environmental drivers comprise mostly thermal properties of seawater
with a strong spatial dependence across a broad scale (82.4%) and a
smaller amount of unknown non-thermal broad-scale spatial influences
(13.7%). Only in the species-poor west coast region is there evidence of
neutral assembly processes (*e.g.* dispersal limitation, and stochastic
processes as one might expect within kelp forests), as shown by the
higher rates of nestedness-resultant -diversity ($_{\text{sne}}$)
emerging there. We recognise that some environmental drivers such as
nutrients can and do co-vary with temperature, but they were not used in
our analysis because they are not as readily measured as temperature,
they are not always directly produced by coupled global ocean-atmosphere
models and thus have less value as predictive (long-term) variables, and
because of the issues arising due to collinearity.

The most comprehensive assessment of global marine biogeography
[@Spalding2007] places much of South Africa’s coast within two realms:
Temperate Southern Africa (from southern Angola to around **56**) and
the western-most edge of the Western Indo-Pacific Realm (across the
Western Indian Ocean to Sumatra). The transition into the Western Indian
Ocean realm is just visible in Section **57** where our data show a
steady rise to tropical water temperatures that exceed 20°C, between
28.5 and 29°S. Our study region is too restricted to capture the rates
of -diversity change at the transition of realms. Here we would expect
higher rates of turnover than we report for the smaller-scale
‘Provinces’ and transition zones that make up the Temperate Southern
African Realm (see below). We would also expect this at higher taxonomic
levels, consistent with the definition for a realm [@Spalding2007]: this
is true for the temperate Southern African seaweed floras, which have
high species endemism but very low generic endemism (except for the
Fucales, Ochrophyta). We hypothesise that this is because the cool
temperate region may be geologically recent [4.6–3.2 Ma, @Marlow2000].

Nested within the realms are marine provinces, areas that according to
[@Spalding2007] are large, with distinct biotas, some level of endemism
(mainly at species level), and distinctive abiotic environments. In this
context, the Benguela and Agulhas Currents prescribe the broadest scale
hydrographic features whose imprint can be seen, at that scale, on the
seaweed flora: they maintain the Benguela Marine Province (BMP) and
Agulhas Marine Province [AMP, as per @Spalding2007] of South Africa,
separated by an area of transition. The southward flowing Agulhas
Current has an overriding effect on the east coast, extending as far as
the eastern portion of the Western Cape Province (**58**–**22**). Along
the east coast it is responsible for setting up a region that
transitions from sub-tropical in the north to warm temperate near Cwebe
(*i.e.* the region **58**–**44**), which is termed the East Coast
Transition Zone (ECTZ). From **44**–**22** the Agulhas Current continues
to maintain an influence on the coast, but its direct effect is subdued
because of the widening of the continental shelf southwards of Cwebe,
and the warm-temperate biogeographical region, the AMP, is
consequentially formed. The northward flowing Benguela Current from
which upwelling is maintained by prevailing south-easterly trade winds
influences the remainder of the Western Cape Province (west of **22**),
particularly from the western side of the Cape Peninsula (**16**/**17**)
northwards to about 16°S. The influence of the Benguela Current here
defines a cool-temperate regime, the BMP, with the range of monthly mean
temperatures at most sections intermediate between cold-temperate and
warm-temperate, according to the definitions of [@luning1990seaweeds].

The oceanographic features of the Benguela and Agulhas Currents set up
gradients in seawater temperature that run predominantly from east to
west (*i.e.* August mean temperatures increasing in this direction), but
also from north to south (*i.e.* with the southern coastline becoming
more variable in its thermal regime). Of particular ecological
importance is the gradient in August mean temperature. It clearly
structures the thermal distance decay curve, which shows a steadily
increasing dissimilarity in thermal distance along the shore from **1**.
The gradient may be smooth or punctuated at irregular intervals by peaks
in dissimilarity. Specifically, the mean temperature for Austral winter
(August) increases more-or-less smoothly from the west. Within the
region, species richness along the coastline reflects the general global
trend — for most taxa but ironically not for seaweeds
[@Bolton1994; @Santelices2009] — of diminishing diversity with
decreasing temperature, which at that scale is seen as a latitudinal
gradient: the cold temperate area of the west coast has a much lower
-diversity than the warm temperate and sub-tropical south and east
coasts, with the latter two regions having similar values. This same
pattern exists for fish and invertebrates in this region, albeit in data
which include coastal waters further from the shore [@Griffiths2010]. In
the previous presentation of the seaweed dataset [@Bolton2002], the ECTZ
had far fewer species per section than the AMP, but this change in the
dataset results from significant research in the period 2000–2005 on the
seaweeds of the ECTZ [@DeClerck2005]. In contrast, bringing the annual
mean temperature or thermal range during Austral summer into the
calculation of the thermal distance introduces several large
punctuations in dissimilarities between some sections — most notably
near Cape Point into False Bay (**17**), and near **30** and **48**. The
region of the coastline where low biodiversity community composition
changes to highly biodiverse communities is reflected in the -diversity,
which peaks around the Cape Peninsula (**16**/**17**). Correlations
between -diversity (resulting from a change in -diversity) and areas of
transition have also been noted in several studies on terrestrial biota
[@Melo2009; @Tonial2012], but such investigations are less established
for marine biota [@Schils2006; @Anderson2013].

-diversity is generally lower within individual bioregions than at the
scale of the country, because the coastlines are shorter and large
differences in diversity cannot approach that which can occur over the
entire coastline. Even within bioregions, -diversity is still
*generally* dominated by species turnover rather than by
nestedness-resultant processes. The exception is the BMP where
nestedness-resultant ($_{\text{sne}}$) assembly processes contribute to
around 58% of the -diversity. The generally strong influence of
turnover-based processes elsewhere highlights the role of environmental
drivers, which here are spatially structured as one would expect of the
steep environmental gradients, and hence of niche influences (*i.e.*
environmental filtering) in determining species assembly
[@Fitzpatrick2013].

It seems plausible that factors linked with the establishment of
oceanographic regimes [historical factors *sensu* @Baselga2012d] that
influenced dispersal and speciation along the coast resulted in the
current-day gradients in -diversity within bioregions. This hypothesis
was put forward to explain the low endemism and low species richness of
Ochrophyta in the upwelling dominated west coast of southern Africa
[@Bolton1986]. But is the underlying mechanism the selection of cold
tolerant species from amongst a more diverse pool in the wider region
[@Bolton1986], or is it due to a dispersal barrier that prevented
elements of the warmer south coast seaweed flora from occupying the west
coast? Evidence from seaweed phylogeography postulates different
evolutionary origins for seaweeds of the BMP and AMP
[@Hommersand1986; @Hommersand2003]. The mechanism could be the
intensification of upwelling during the mid-Pliocene 4.6–3.2 Ma
[@Marlow2000]. Turnover is almost entirely absent in favour of
nestedness-resultant processes in the BMP, but the AMP is defined
entirely by a moderate rate of turnover with respect to both
geographical and thermal distance. The dominance of the
nestedness-resultant component of -diversity within the BMP suggests
that the complex, non-linear influence of the annual mean temperature
selectively influences species richness from section to section in a
pattern that is not spatially coherent, but this climatic variable
(*i.e.* fraction <span>\[</span>E<span>\]</span>, which has *some*
spatial structure) explains only 39.1% of the $_{\text{sne}}$ patterning
in the region. Unaccounted-for non-climatic variables and perhaps
non-environmental variables may explain some of the remaining variation.
This points to habitat and/or environmental heterogeneity and neutral
processes such as dispersal limitation, stochastic influences or habitat
heterogeneity as the main structuring agents of communities within the
region. Indeed, habitat heterogeneity generated through stochastic
influences such as patchiness due to storms denuding portions of kelp
beds (which is the dominant habitat type along the west coast) is
well-known in kelp forests [@Smale2011]. Furthermore, the prevalence of
two kinds of assembly processes to either side of the Cape Peninsula
(**17**), coinciding with the point where a region of low -diversity
(BMP) transitions into a region of higher -diversity (the
Benguela-Agulhas Transition Zone, B-ATZ), suggests that the answer to
our question is probably that some historical event was responsible for
that disjunction, and that this barrier is still maintained today due to
limited mixing between the Agulhas and Benguela Currents (although some
of the sections along the west coast between **16**/**17** and **10**
certainly have a reasonable probability of sharing species with sections
at the western-most side of the AMP, *e.g.* **23**, **24**; see more on
the B-ATZ, below).

Rapid rates of species turnover with respect to geographic and thermal
distance along the east coast, and the steep decrease in species
richness around the **16**/**17**–**22** transition region, suggest that
relatively more endemic species should occur within the BMP and AMP.
Seawater becomes warmer along a steep gradient along the east coast
northward towards **54** where-after there is a further steepening of
the gradient towards Mozambique (north of **58**). This steepening of
the already strong temperature gradient in the northern portion of the
ECTZ supports the conclusion of [@Bolton2004] that it represents the
transition from a tropical Indian Ocean seaweed flora in Mozambique to a
temperate flora in the south. A similar pattern exists for the rocky
intertidal biota in the region [@Sink2005]. The temperature of the
coldest month of the year sufficiently accounts for the environmental
gradient in all bioregions, except for in the BMP. This strong coupling
between the thermal gradient and $_{\text{sim}}$ suggests that a niche
difference mechanism is the primary species compositional assembly
process [@Nekola1999]. This implies species being sorted based on their
physiological tolerances along a gradient, and the particularly high
rate of species turnover along the east coast reflects the species’
narrow thermal ranges. Species here have narrow local distributions, and
there is only a 2% seaweed endemism in the region [@Bolton2004].

The overlap region between **22** and the southern tip of the Cape
Peninsula (**16**/**17**), which we call the B-ATZ, is an area where
aspects of both currents may be periodically seen [@Largier1992], and it
is not surprising that biogeographically this region includes biotic
elements from the marine provinces on both sides of it. This is clearly
visible in our analyses, which show the highest rates of species
turnover ($_{\text{sim}}$) with respect to geographical distance, the
mean temperature for August and the range in temperature in February.
This is a form of regional biogeographical structuring called the
temporal/spatial constraint model [@Nekola1999]. Similar conclusions
with regards to the B-ATZ being an transitional area have been reached
by [@Stephenson1948; @Bolton1986; @Bolton2004; @Mead2013]. For marine
macroalgae at least, this area cannot be recognised as a marine province
as it does not meet the criteria for it to be classified as such
[@Spalding2007], *i.e.* it lacks cohesion, levels of endemism, and there
is an absence of distinct abiotic features (with exception of such
conditions periodically arising in False Bay due to prevailing mesoscale
oceanographic conditions).

It was recently suggested that studies which associate marine macroalgal
distributional patterns with broad-scale temperature gradients neglect
to consider alternative or additional explanations, such as that offered
by connectivity due to ocean currents [@Wernberg2013]. It is possible
that seaweeds are similarly influenced by ocean currents around South
Africa, and it is temping to suggest that the *direction* of turnover
along the east coast is from north to south, and along the south coast
from east to west, as this would coincide with the direction of the
Agulhas Current. From a purely thermal point of view, the imprints of
those ocean currents are certainly present at the coast in the zone that
our seaweed data represent, but the physical processes that operate in
that coastal zone are considerably more complex and decoupled from
mesoscale influences [@Schlegel2017]. Personal observations by one of us
(AS) recount dislodged individuals of the kelp, *Ecklonia maxima*,
having washed ashore some 400 km east of the eastern-most distributional
limit for the species in South Africa — this is *against* the direction
of the current, which in this region is situated considerably far from
the shore along the edge of the Agulhas Bank. Our data on the rate of
species turnover as a function of the thermal difference between coastal
sections ($_{\text{sim}}$ *vs.* d$_{\text{E}}$) within bioregions show
an almost precise relationship between thermal difference and change in
species composition (even though the relationship between d$_{\text{E}}$
and geographical distance differs between the east and south coasts),
and provide very strong support for temperature, rather than
connectivity due to currents, as an overriding driver of seaweed
community composition over large spatial scales. Within the context of
Beijerinck’s ‘Law’ that “everything is everywhere but the environment
selects” [@deWit2006], the only role that ocean currents can have in
setting up biogeographical patterns is to cause *everything not to be
everywhere*. At these scales, with or without the influence of ocean
currents, temperature still selects. In other words, at broad spatial
scales within the region encompassed by the ECTZ and the AMP, the
seaweed flora is structured predominantly by niche-assembly processes
driven by a thermal gradient.

However, we should point out that *ca.* 13.7% of the seaweed flora’s
turnover is also explained by some other broad scale spatial influences
(MEM2, MEM3 and MEM5), which represent exogenous (unmeasured)
environmental variables and autocorrelation. The importance of these
relative to each other is unknown. Future work may find that some of
these environmental influences may indeed be that of ocean currents,
which operate at those broad scales, but our current interpretation does
not support this notion. Rather, we suggest that the unknown influence
is more likely to be neutral influences [@Hubbell2001] manifesting at a
reasonably broad scale. These may include stochastic events [*e.g.*
@Smale2011] or biotic processes caused by differences in species
demography, dispersal or the influence of grazers, etc. Such processes
are usually finer scaled, but, having said that, the entire west coast
region that makes up the BMP is dominated by nestedness-resultant
-diversity, which is also symptomatic of neutral assembly processes.

Conclusions
-----------

Our approach throughout this paper hinges upon the biogeographical
provinces and overlap regions defined using both seaweed and thermal
data. Together, thermal and species gradients/patterns provide the most
parsimonious explanation for the processes assembling the seaweed flora
within the study region. The explanation is that thermal gradients set
up -diversity based on species turnover as a result of environmental
filtering within the southern and eastern coastal sections, while along
the west coast a very different kind of assembly process,
nestedness-resultant -diversity, emerges. We suggest that this
disjunction results from a historical event that is currently still
limiting connectivity between the Indian and Atlantic Oceans around the
Cape Peninsula.

We also show how thermal metrics other than the annual mean temperatures
can aid in the delineation of macroecological patterns. Some species are
limited by cold and some by warm temperatures, and the constraining
factor may differ at a species’ southern and northern limits [*e.g.*
@VandenHoek1982a; @Breeman1988]. If these are important determinants, as
we indeed show there are, other measures of climate should be used in
our repertoire of explanatory variables. For example, the mean
temperature for the coldest month, standard deviation, variation in
annual temperature extremes, or temperature ranges [*e.g.* as used by
@Qian2007; @Leaper2011] may readily be extracted from time series of
daily temperatures. These approaches, as we apply them here, may greatly
improve macroecological and biogeographic studies and aid our ability to
analyse broad-scale communities patterns and the processes that assemble
them.

Conflict of Interest Statement {#conflict-of-interest-statement .unnumbered}
==============================

The authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of
any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as a
potential conflict of interest.

Author Contributions {#author-contributions .unnumbered}
====================

AS conceptualised the scope of the research reported in this paper,
undertook all the numerical and statistical analyses, made the first
round of interpretation, and did the bulk of the writing. JB and RA
collected all the samples over the last 30 years, compiled the database
of species distribution records for the region included in this
analysis, contributed in equal part to the conceptualisation of the
research and the interpretation of the findings, and provided
significant editorial input into penultimate and final drafts of the
document.

Funding {#funding .unnumbered}
=======

The research was partly funded by the South African National Research
Foundation (http://www.nrf.ac.za) programme “Thermal characteristics of
the South African nearshore: implications for biodiversity”
(CPRR14072378735).

Aside from providing funding, the funders had no role in the study
design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish, or
preparation of the manuscript.

Acknowledgments {#acknowledgments .unnumbered}
===============

Robert Schlegel is thanked for his assistance in the preparation of some
of Figure 1.

Tables {#tables .unnumbered}
======

<span>lSSSS</span> & <span>d.f.</span> & <span>Adj.
<span>$r^2$</span></span> & <span>$F$</span> & <span>$P$</span>\
\
<span>\[</span>E<span>\]</span>, thermal variables & 4 & 0.842 & 110.16
& 0.001\
<span>\[</span>S<span>\]</span>, spatial variables & 16 & 0.961 & 80.731
& 0.001\
<span>\[</span>E+S<span>\]</span>, all thermal and spatial & 20 & 0.979
& 191.56 & 0.001\
<span>\[</span>E$\vert$S<span>\]</span>, thermal, non-spatial & 4 &
0.018 & 20.506 & 0.001\
<span>\[</span>E with S<span>\]</span>, spatially structured thermal & &
0.824 & &\
<span>\[</span>S$\vert$E<span>\]</span>, spatial, non-thermal & 16 &
0.137 & 23.649 & 0.001\
1–<span>\[</span>E+S<span>\]</span>, residual variance & & 0.021 & &\
\
<span>\[</span>E<span>\]</span>, thermal variables & 1 & 0.391 & -6.017
& <span>—</span>\
<span>\[</span>S<span>\]</span>, spatial variables & 4 & 0.678 & 12.06 &
0.001\
<span>\[</span>E+S<span>\]</span>, all thermal and spatial & 5 & 0.714 &
9.077 & 0.001\
<span>\[</span>E$\vert$S<span>\]</span>, thermal, non-spatial & 1 &
0.040 & -1.018 & 0.997\
<span>\[</span>E with S<span>\]</span>, spatially structured thermal & &
0.355 & &\
<span>\[</span>S$\vert$E<span>\]</span>, spatial, non-thermal & 4 &
0.323 & 14.277 & 0.001\
1–<span>\[</span>E+S<span>\]</span>, residual variance & & 0.286 & &\

\[table1\]

<span>lSSSS</span> & <span>$_{\text{sør}}$</span> &
<span>$_{\text{sim}}$</span> & <span>$_{\text{sne}}$</span> &
<span>$_{\text{sne}}$/$_{\text{sør}}$</span>\
BMP & <span>0.105 ± 0.086</span> & <span>0.044 ± 0.053</span> &
<span>0.061 ± 0.059</span> & <span>0.581</span>\
B-ATZ & <span>0.098 ± 0.068</span> & <span>0.083 ± 0.071</span> &
<span>0.014 ± 0.009</span> & <span>0.143</span>\
AMP & <span>0.117 ± 0.076</span> & <span>0.087 ± 0.067</span> &
<span>0.030 ± 0.020</span> & <span>0.170</span>\
ECTZ & <span>0.259 ± 0.157</span> & <span>0.234 ± 0.162</span> &
<span>0.025 ± 0.018</span> & <span>0.097</span>\
overall & <span>0.496 ± 0.287</span> & <span>0.433 ± 0.277</span> &
<span>0.063 ± 0.061</span> & <span>0.127</span>\

\[table2\]

<span>lSSSS</span> & <span>$\beta$</span> & <span>$t$-value</span> & $P$
& <span>Adj. $r^2$</span>\
\
BMP & <span>0.007 ± 0.002</span> & 3.886 & &lt;0.001 & 0.052\
B-ATZ & <span>0.109 ± 0.016</span> & 6.873 & &lt;0.001 & 0.658\
AMP & <span>0.029 ± 0.001</span> & 44.751 & &lt;0.001 & 0.834\
ECTZ & <span>0.079 ± 0.001</span> & 65.003 & &lt;0.001 & 0.936\
\
BMP & <span>0.009 ± 0.012</span> & 0.765 & 0.445 & -0.001\
B-ATZ & <span>0.342 ± 0.060</span> & 6.139 & &lt;0.001 & 0.605\
AMP & <span>0.290 ± 0.010</span> & 29.209 & &lt;0.001 & 0.681\
ECTZ & <span>0.350 ± 0.011</span> & 31.200 & &lt;0.001 & 0.772\
\
BMP & <span>0.008 ± 0.011</span> & 0.710 & 0.479 & -0.002\
B-ATZ & <span>0.259 ± 0.047</span> & 5.491 & &lt;0.001 & 0.548\
AMP & <span>-0.006 ± 0.004</span> & -1.422 & 0.156 & 0.003\
ECTZ & <span>0.183 ± 0.009</span> & 20.102 & &lt;0.001 & 0.583\
\
BMP & <span>0.018 ± 0.011</span> & 1.583 & 0.115 & 0.006\
B-ATZ & <span>0.161 ± 0.080</span> & 2.029 & 0.054 & 0.115\
AMP & <span>-0.007 ± 0.002</span> & -2.758 & 0.006 & 0.016\
ECTZ & <span>0.171 ± 0.013</span> & 13.401 & &lt;0.001 & 0.383\
\
BMP & <span>0.038 ± 0.008</span> & 4.590 & &lt;0.001 & 0.073\
B-ATZ & <span>0.103 ± 0.032</span> & 3.183 & 0.004 & 0.276\
AMP & <span>-0.003 ± 0.003</span> & -0.936 & 0.35 & -0.000\
ECTZ & <span>0.082 ± 0.008</span> & 11.411 & &lt;0.001 & 0.310\
\
BMP & <span>0.015 ± 0.002</span> & 8.178 & &lt;0.001 & 0.205\
B-ATZ & <span>0.006 ± 0.004</span> & 1.541 & 0.137 & 0.054\
AMP & <span>0.006 ± 0.000</span> & 15.255 & &lt;0.001 & 0.367\
ECTZ & <span>-0.001 ± 0.001</span> & -2.20 & 0.029 & 0.013\
\
BMP & <span>0.067 ± 0.009</span> & 7.141 & &lt;0.001 & 0.164\
B-ATZ & <span>0.037 ± 0.013</span> & 2.929 & 0.008 & 0.24\
AMP & <span>-0.009 ± 0.004</span> & -2.499 & 0.013 & 0.013\
ECTZ & <span>-0.002 ± 0.003</span> & -0.845 & 0.399 & -0.001\

\[table3\]

Figures and captions {#figures-and-captions .unnumbered}
====================

![<span>**Profile of mean annual temperature along the coast of South
Africa.**</span> Profiles are indicated as a function of geographical
position on a coastal map (top) and as a function of distance away from
Section **1** (bottom). The latter visualisation also indicates the
long-term minimum (mean August) and maximum (mean February) temperatures
as a grey shaded area around the annual mean temperature. The inset
shows the species richness of macroalgae along the coast. Note that
although a detailed temperature profile is displayed here, further
analyses in this paper proceed with temperature data interpolated to the
58 sections for which seaweed diversity data are available.<span
data-label="fig1"></span>](../figures/Fig1.jpg)

![<span>**db-RDA biplots of `lc` scores for $_{\text{sim}}$ and
$_{\text{sne}}$ constrained by the thermal and spatial MEM
variables.**</span> The only two canonical axes shown are CAP1 and CAP2
since these capture the bulk of the inertia present in the ordinations.
The constraining vectors were selected during the db-RDA steps.<span
data-label="fig2"></span>](../figures/Fig2.jpg)

![<span>**db-RDA site scores for $_{\text{sim}}$ and $_{\text{sne}}$ on
geographic coordinates.**</span> The site scores indicate the major
gradients captured by the environmental and spatial (MEM) constraints.
Gray circles indicate negative site scores.<span
data-label="fig3"></span>](../figures/Fig3.jpg)

![<span>**Network graphs of pairwise $_{\text{sim}}$ showing sections
that are similar to one-another in species composition.**</span>
Dissimilarity indices range from &gt;0.0–0.5 (possible dissimilarities
range from 0.0–1.0). The 58 sections in Appendix A appear as dots at the
vertices of the network graph, with those belonging with the ‘active’
bioregion shown in white. The pairwise dissimilarities are shown by the
coloured lines, with blacker lines indicating lower dissimilarity
indices (species composition more similar) and redder ones higher
dissimilarity indices (species composition more dissimilar).<span
data-label="fig4"></span>](../figures/Fig4.jpg)

![<span>**Plots of the turnover ($_{\text{sim}}$) and
nestedness-resultant ($_{\text{sne}}$) forms of -diversity as a function
of geographical or thermal distance between the coastal
sections.**</span> The influential d$_{\text{E}}$ variables (*augMean*,
*febRange*, *febSD* and *augSD* for $_{\text{sim}}$, and *annMean* for
$_{\text{sne}}$) were determined in the db-RDA procedure.
$_{\text{sim}}$, $_{\text{sne}}$, d$_{\text{E}}$ and geographical
distance were calculated as differences between coastal section pairs,
and data points representing section pairs falling between bioregions
are coloured yellow and labelled ‘out’. The strengths and gradients of
the regression lines indicated in the panels are presented in
Table \[table3\].<span data-label="fig5"></span>](../figures/Fig5.jpg)
